Many of us are used to
taking a data set and
randomly splitting it into train dev and
tests.
It turns out when your data set is
small having balanced train dev and
test set can significantly improve your
machine learning development process.
Let's take a look.
Let's use our manufacturing
visual inspection example.
Say your training set has 100 images,
so pretty small data set and
with 30 positive examples, so
30 defective phones and 70 non defective.
If you were to use a train dev test split
of 60% of the data in the training set,
20% in the dev or a validation set and
20% in the test set say.
Then if you were to use
a random split just by chance
is not inconceivable that
you may end up with 21
positive examples in train,
2 in dev and 7 in tests.
This would be quite likely
just by random chance.
And this means the training
set is 35% positive,
not that far from 30% positive
in the overall dataset,
but your dev set is 10% positive and
your test set is 35% positive.
So 2 out of 20 is 10%, 7 out of 20 is 35%.
And this makes your dev set
quite non representative
because in your dev set you have only 2 or
10% positive examples rather
than 30% positive examples.
But when your data set is small than
all of your 20 dev set examples,
it's just a higher chance of this,
slightly less representative split.
So what we would really want is for
the training
set to have exactly 18 positive examples,
dev set to have exactly
6 positive examples and
the test set to have exactly
6 positive examples.
And this would be 30%, 30% 30%.
And if you could get this type of split,
this would be called a balanced split.
Where each of your train, dev and tests
has exactly 30% positive examples and this
makes your data set more representative
of the true data distribution.
There's no need to worry about this
effect when you have a large data set.
If you have a very large data set,
a random split will very likely
be representative, meaning that
the percentage of positive examples will
be quite close to your overall data set.
But when you have a small data set
with just 20 dev set examples and
20 test set examples,
then explicitly making sure you
have a balanced split can
make your dev set and
test set more reliable measures of
your learning algorithms performance.
This is one of those little techniques
that turns out to make a big difference to
your performance when you're
working on a small data problem,
but that you don't really need to worry
about if you have a very large data set.
So when you have a smaller data set,
I hope you consider using a balanced
train dev test split as well in terms
of how you set up your data set.
So when you're working on a smaller data
problem I hope that using a balanced
change test split will help you
with your learning algorithm.
And so that's it.
Congratulations on getting to
this point in this course.
You've finished the data
section of videos and
in the last two weeks you also
learned about modeling and deployment.
There's just one last optional section
that you can watch if you want on scoping.
I hope you come with me to watch
the optional scoping videos as well.
We'll talk about how to
select a project to work on.
But either way congrats on finishing
all the required videos of this course.
I hope you learned a lot and
that these ideas will be useful for
all the machine learning projects.